---
permalink: /m20
---


{::nomarkdown}
## <mcode>M20</mcode>: List SD card

<mcode>M20</mcode> lists the contents of the SD card connected to your Smoothieboard.

When you issue an <mcode>M20</mcode> command, Smoothie reads the SD card contents and outputs the file list to the serial port.
{:/nomarkdown}

A properly connected host will receive and display the Smoothie's SD card directory to its console.

### Troubleshooting

To verify and debug your Smoothie's serial connection, try the troubleshooting guide in the [debug section](troubleshooting).

{::nomarkdown}
<sl-alert variant="neutral" open>
  <sl-icon slot="icon" name="info-circle"></sl-icon>
  <strong>Note:</strong> Special considerations may apply for Ethernet connections. Please refer to the <a href="network">network documentation</a> for more information.
</sl-alert>
{:/nomarkdown}

## Format

The command is used as such:

```gcode
M20 [S] [P]
```

**Which means:** output the contents of SD card to serial port while using `S` to define the format and `P` defines the directory to list.

## Parameters

| Parameter | Usage | Example |
| --------- | ----- | ------- |
| `S` | Style: Defines the format used to present the output | `M20 S0` |
| `P` | Directory: Defines the directory that will be listed | `M20` |

### Smoothie Implementation

The `S` parameter when used with Smoothie supports Style 0 only, which is the default.

If you do not include `S`, it will assume `S0`.

The `P` parameter is not supported by Smoothie.

Smoothie always lists the SD card's root directory.

## Example

If your SD card contents were:

- config.txt
- firmware.cur
- Readme.txt
- myGcode.gcode

This means if you command:

```gcode
M20 S0
```

or

```gcode
M20 S0 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 S1 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 P2
```

...they will all print the following to the connected console:

```
Ok
config.txt
firmware.cur
Readme.txt
myGcode.gcode
```

## Configuration

{::nomarkdown}
The <mcode>M20</mcode> command requires no special configuration settings.
{:/nomarkdown}

It works as long as the SD card is properly inserted and recognized by Smoothieboard.

## Further reading

These resources are used as references:

- [RepRap G-code M20: List SD card](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M20:_List_SD_card)
- [RepRap G-code M-commands](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M-commands)
- [Supported G-codes](supported-g-codes)
