---
layout: default
title: M20 - List SD Card Contents
---

# M20 M-code

**M20** is a member of a class of M-codes which are used to access and manage the contents of the connected Smoothie's **SD Card**.

Issuing an **M20** causes the contents of Smoothie's SD card to be output to its serial port.

A properly connected host will in turn receive and display the Smoothie's SD card directory to its console.

To verify and debug your Smoothie's serial connection, see [Computer Sees Board](debug-computer-sees-board).

{::nomarkdown}
<sl-alert variant="neutral" open>
  <sl-icon slot="icon" name="info-circle"></sl-icon>
  <strong>Network Connections:</strong> This command also works over Ethernet connections when using the network interface.
</sl-alert>
{:/nomarkdown}

---

## Related M-codes

**M20-M36** are also members of this class of SD card commands:

- **M20** - List SD card contents (this page)
- **M21** - Initialize SD card
- **M22** - Release SD card
- **M23** - Select SD file
- **M24** - Start/resume SD print
- **M25** - Pause SD print
- **M26** - Set SD position
- **M27** - Report SD print status
- **M28** - Begin write to SD card
- **M29** - Stop writing to SD card
- **M30** - Delete a file on the SD card
- **M31** - Select file and start SD print
- **M32** - Get the long name for an SD card file or folder
- **M33** - Stop and Close File and save restart.gcode
- **M34** - Set SD file sorting options
- **M35** - Upload firmware NEXTION from SD
- **M36** - Return file information

[Go to other M-codes](supported-g-codes)

---

## Format

The command is used as such:

```gcode
M20 [S] [P]
```

**What it does:** Outputs contents of SD card to serial port while using `S` to define the format and `P` defines the directory to list.

---

## Parameters

| Parameter | Usage | Example |
| --------- | ----- | ------- |
| `S` | Style: Defines the format used to present the output | M20 S0 |
| `P` | Directory: Defines the directory that will be listed | M20 P/subdirectory |

---

## Smoothie Supported Parameter Values

The `S` parameter when used with Smoothie supports **Style 0 only**, which is the default.

If you do not include `S` it will assume `S0`.

The `P` parameter is **not supported** by Smoothie.

Smoothie defaults to the SD card's root directory.

### Example

If your SD card contents were:

- config.txt
- firmware.cur
- Readme.txt
- myGcode.gcode

This means if you command any of the following:

```gcode
M20 S0
```

or

```gcode
M20 S0 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 S1 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 P2
```

...they will **all** print the following to the connected console:

```
Ok
config.txt
firmware.cur
Readme.txt
myGcode.gcode
```

---

## Modal Use

The M20 command is **not modal**.

It executes once and does not affect subsequent commands.

---

## Further Reading

These resources are used as references:

- [RepRap G-code M20 Documentation](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M20:_List_SD_card)
- [RepRap M-commands Overview](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M-commands)
- [SD Card Usage in Smoothie](sd-card)
- [Supported G-codes](supported-g-codes)
