
## M20: List SD card

**M20** is a member of a class of M-codes which are used to access and manage the contents of the connected Smoothie's **SD Card**.

Issuing an **M20** causes the contents of Smoothie's SD card to be output to its serial port.

A properly connected host will in turn receive and display the Smoothie's SD card directory to its console.

To verify and debug your Smoothie's serial connection, try the troubleshooting guide in the [debug section](troubleshooting).

<sl-alert variant="neutral" open>
  <sl-icon slot="icon" name="info-circle"></sl-icon>
  <strong>Note:</strong> Special considerations may apply for Ethernet connections. Please refer to the <a href="network">network documentation</a> for more information.
</sl-alert>

### Format

The command is used as such:

```gcode
M20 [S] [P]
```

**Which means:** output the contents of SD card to serial port while using `S` to define the format and `P` defines the directory to list.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Usage | Example |
| --------- | ----- | ------- |
| `S` | Style: Defines the format used to present the output | `M20 S0` |
| `P` | Directory: Defines the directory that will be listed | `M20` |

The `S` parameter when used with Smoothie supports Style 0 only, which is the default. If you do not include `S`, it will assume `S0`.

The `P` parameter is not supported by Smoothie. Smoothie defaults to the SD card's root directory.

### Example

If your SD card contents were:
- config.txt
- firmware.cur
- Readme.txt
- myGcode.gcode

This means if you command:

```gcode
M20 S0
```

or

```gcode
M20 S0 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 S1 P1
```

or

```gcode
M20 P2
```

...they will all print the following to the connected console:

```
Ok
config.txt
firmware.cur
Readme.txt
myGcode.gcode
```

### Configuration

The M20 command requires no special configuration settings.

### Further reading

These resources are used as references:

- [RepRap G-code M20: List SD card](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M20:_List_SD_card)
- [RepRap G-code M-commands](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M-commands)
- [Supported G-codes](supported-g-codes)
