
# M24: Start/Resume SD Print

Issuing an **M24** starts printing the file selected with the M23 command.

### Resuming Paused Prints

If the print was previously paused with M25, printing is resumed from that point.

When resuming a paused print, Smoothieware automatically runs the macro file `resume.g` (if it exists) prior to resuming.

### Restarting from Beginning

To restart a file from the beginning, use M23 to reset it, then M24 to start printing.

{::nomarkdown}
<sl-alert variant="neutral" open>
  <sl-icon slot="icon" name="info-circle"></sl-icon>
  <strong>Print:</strong> In this context, "print" refers to running a job on any Smoothie-controlled device such as 3D printer, laser engraver/cutter, CNC router, etc.
</sl-alert>
{:/nomarkdown}

## Format

The command is used as such:

```
M24
```

Which means: Print the file that was previously selected by the M23 command.

## Parameters

The M24 command requires no parameters.

It operates on the file previously selected with M23.

## Example

If your SD card's contents were:

- config.txt
- firmware.cur
- Readme.txt
- myGcode.gco

And you previously executed:

```
M23 myGcode.gco
```

Then issuing the command:

```
M24
```

Will result in the G-code commands in the file *myGcode.gco* being executed.

## Configuration

The M24 command requires no special configuration settings.

However, you can create a `resume.g` file on the SD card to run custom G-code when resuming from a pause.

## Further reading

These resources are used as references:

- [RepRap G-code M20: List SD card](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M20:_List_SD_card)
- [RepRap G-code M-commands](http://reprap.org/wiki/G-code#M-commands)
- [Go to other M-codes](supported-g-codes)
